README.md, before:

(* OASIS_START *)
(* DO NOT EDIT (digest: da26e9ccd930cf96dc4396ad89d1a528) *)

battleship - Battleship simulation library
==========================================

See the file [INSTALL.txt](INSTALL.txt) for building and installation
instructions.

Copyright and license
---------------------

battleship is distributed under the terms of the MIT License.

(* OASIS_STOP *)


Battleship
----------

Build an API for simulating a game of ["Battleship"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battleship_(game)).

#### Requirements

Maintain the state of a game of "Battleship", including four boards,
two for each player, one for recording the current state of the
players ships, and one for recording the players' attacks. We want to
take care of the basic ability to control the game, and the players
moves whilst keeping of track of this game state.

__Don't__ worry about trying to encode a simulation for the full
rules of "Battleship", we just require the APIs so that someone could
write an automated simulator or AI for a complete game on top.

In battleship, a board consists of a grid of 10 x 10, labelled
vertically with the numbers 1 to 10 (from top to bottom) and labelled
horizontally with the letters a to j (from left to right).

A player knows:

 - where their own ships are

 - where their own previous attacking moves have been made, and their result

 - where their opponent's previous attacking moves have been made and their result

To play the game, each player, plays an attacking move in turn, the
result of this may be a "hit" if the square is occupied by an
opponent's ship, or a "miss" if the square is not. A player wins when
they have "hit" every square occupied by their opponents ships.

Each player should start the game with 5 ships, laid out in
non-overlapping positions on their own board:

| Ship       | Size (in squares) |
| ---------- | ----------------- |
| Carrier    | 1 x 5             |
| Battleship | 1 x 4             |
| Submarine  | 1 x 3             |
| Cruiser    | 1 x 2             |
| Patrol     | 1 x 1             |


The minimal set of operations we want to support:

 - Create an empty board. (DONE)
 - Place a ship on the board. (DONE)
 - Create a random board with the ships already placed. (DONE)
 - Make an attacking move, determining if it is a hit or a miss and
   updating the game state. (DONE)
 - Determine the current state of the game, finished (and who won),
   in play. (provide finished function for a board)


TODO
----------

  * Check attack position is valid (Uses List.Assoc.find with an option, if
    invalid position it returns None) (DONE)
  * Make board sorted in print_board (DONE)
  * Fix types exported in .mli (DONE)
  * Attack returns updated board and result of attack (DONE)
  * Remove _exn versions of functions so they return option types (Mostly).
    _exn's left show where we expect to convert between chars in a know range
    and if theyre outside that range something is wrong internally.
  * Write a dumb agent to play game.
  * Write test case for entire game, using opposition board and attack board

Commit message:

Use jbuilder for compiling.
Also fixes up issues with changing Core_kernel api.

README.md, after:

battleship - Battleship simulation library
==========================================

Build an API for simulating a game of ["Battleship"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battleship_(game)).

## Requirements

Maintain the state of a game of "Battleship", including four boards,
two for each player, one for recording the current state of the
players ships, and one for recording the players' attacks. We want to
take care of the basic ability to control the game, and the players
moves whilst keeping of track of this game state.

__Don't__ worry about trying to encode a simulation for the full
rules of "Battleship", we just require the APIs so that someone could
write an automated simulator or AI for a complete game on top.

In battleship, a board consists of a grid of 10 x 10, labelled
vertically with the numbers 1 to 10 (from top to bottom) and labelled
horizontally with the letters a to j (from left to right).

A player knows:

 - where their own ships are

 - where their own previous attacking moves have been made, and their result

 - where their opponent's previous attacking moves have been made and their result

To play the game, each player, plays an attacking move in turn, the
result of this may be a "hit" if the square is occupied by an
opponent's ship, or a "miss" if the square is not. A player wins when
they have "hit" every square occupied by their opponents ships.

Each player should start the game with 5 ships, laid out in
non-overlapping positions on their own board:

| Ship       | Size (in squares) |
| ---------- | ----------------- |
| Carrier    | 1 x 5             |
| Battleship | 1 x 4             |
| Submarine  | 1 x 3             |
| Cruiser    | 1 x 2             |
| Patrol     | 1 x 1             |


The minimal set of operations we want to support:

 - Create an empty board. (DONE)
 - Place a ship on the board. (DONE)
 - Create a random board with the ships already placed. (DONE)
 - Make an attacking move, determining if it is a hit or a miss and
   updating the game state. (DONE)
 - Determine the current state of the game, finished (and who won),
   in play. (provide finished function for a board)

## Building

Requires an install of opam

    opam install jbuilder
    jbuilder build


## TODO

  * Check attack position is valid (Uses List.Assoc.find with an option, if
    invalid position it returns None) (DONE)
  * Make board sorted in print_board (DONE)
  * Fix types exported in .mli (DONE)
  * Attack returns updated board and result of attack (DONE)
  * Remove _exn versions of functions so they return option types (Mostly).
    _exn's left show where we expect to convert between chars in a know range
    and if theyre outside that range something is wrong internally.
  * Write a dumb agent to play game.
  * Write test case for entire game, using opposition board and attack board
